

Today I tried to upgrade jsoup from 1.8.3 to 1.10.1, however, one of my unit test failed like this:
"div.a-row.a-spacing-medium span.a-size-base:contains(I'll Ship & Pay)"
"div.a-row.a-spacing-medium span.a-size-base:contains(I'll Send & Pay)"
"div.a-row.a-spacing-medium span.a-color-price:contains(Varies)"
Above are 3 css selectors and in a webpage that no such element exists, Jsoup selector find 9 elements, which broke my unit test. It seems like that the contains logic broke. I'm not sure whether ' or & processing changed in newer version.
Can you have a look at this? For your reference I've attached the html page as a zip file.
AmazonReturn.zip



The HTML you sent me doesn't contain any of those strings (no Send & Pay, no Varies). So none of those selectors could match. Maybe the output format changed? Can you check and verify please.



Hi Jonathan,
Thank you for your reply on this issue I reported. Sorry for I don't express the issue clearly. Yes, the html doesn't contain any of those strings, but the behavior actually is not this.
Yes, the expected result is that I cannot find any result matching selectors I listed above, however, the actual result is that Jsoup find.
I've copied the html source to https://try.jsoup.org/ and input any selector of the 3:
div.a-row.a-spacing-medium span.a-size-base:contains(I'll Send & Pay) -> find 8 elements(incorrect)
div.a-row.a-spacing-medium span.a-size-base:contains(I'll Ship & Pay) -> find 8 elements(incorrect)
div.a-row.a-spacing-medium span.a-color-price:contains(Varies) -> find 0 elements(correct)
Just used save feature of this site for your reference: http://try.jsoup.org/~NOfOU7vXHAaHWhDnHv5qBIPtE1M
One of my unit test is dependent on the correct result, that is, no element should be find by any of these 3 selectors, in 1.8.3, it's correct, yet 1.10.1 will fail this test.
I've just verified again, when I change jsoup version to 1.8.3 in pom.xml, my unit test passes, when I change it to 1.10.1, it failed.
PS: this issue also exists in 1.10.2 as I just tested.



OK, got it. Looks like the quote elimination path in the :contains is borking in this case.
BTW you can save on Try Jsoup and share links, would save having to attach files etc. See http://try.jsoup.org/~fBbWSZmXwQYUxm2TV8YJpVvc3yg



This is coming from the change for #611. Needs to check quote is at start.



Hi Jonathan,
When I check other issues I found the save feature, so I updated my comments and add the url. This "try jsoup" site is awesome, I would use it in my development for quick verify and testing in the future. Thank you for providing such a great tool plus your great library that I use since 1.7 versions in nearly all my personal projects.



I'm not sure this is going to be reconcilable with #611. It may be that if you have an unbalanced quote you'll need to escape it. And the change to jsoup will be to throw an exception if there is content left on the selector that is unused. (I'll give some examples)



Thanks for the feedback. Because of using quotes in :contains and [attribute] matching, we can't make :contains(Text " Text) work. So the solution for you (looking for a quote) will be to escape that quote, like :contains(Text \" Text) (and remember to double escape in source code, once for Java, once for the CSS; just like a regex). See the committed test case.
To make it more obvious what's going wrong, if an unbalanced quote or parentheses is found, jsoup now throws an exception.
Hope this helps!

